[New Term] C++ Math Functions: `round()` (#1043)
Codecademy/docs: content/cpp/concepts/math-functions/terms/round/round.md

---
Title: 'round()'

> Description: 'Returns the integral value that is nearest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from zero.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the integer that is nearest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from zero.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The `round()` function returns the integral value that is nearest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `round()` function returns the integer that is nearest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from zero.
```

## Syntax

> 
> The `cmath` library must be added at the top of the file.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

I would omit this line since this point is covered in the parent [math functions entry](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/cpp/math-functions).

```cpp

> std::round(double num);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
round(num);
```

```

> Argument must be a `double`/`float`/`long double`, and the return value will be the type of `integer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `num` parameter must be a `double`,`float`, or `long double`. The return value will be an integer.
```

## Example

```cpp
double num, result;

result = std::round(num);
```

> 

Reviewer: This example could be expanded a bit more. Can we assign a numeric value to `num` before passing into `round()`?

---
Title: 'round()'
Description: 'Returns the integer that is nearest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from zero.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The `round()` function returns the integer that is nearest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`round()`** function returns the integer that closest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from zero.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
round(num);
```

> The `num` parameter must be a `double`,`float`, or `long double`. The return value will be an integer.

Reviewer: I would maybe include one more sentence here that explains what a halfway case is and how they are used in the `round()` function.

## Example

> 

Reviewer: Let's add one sentence there that previews the \```cpp snippet. Maybe something that starts with "The following example"

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example showcases the `round()` function being applied to two `double` values, one of which is a halfway case:

```

```cpp
double num = 9.23;
double result;

result = std::round(num);

std::cout << "The result is " << result << "!\n";
// Output: The result is 9!
```

## Codebyte Example

> Use `round()` to round-off `10.89`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example is runnable and rounds the halfway case away from zero:
```

---
Title: 'round()'

> Description: 'Returns the integer that is nearest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from zero.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the integer that is nearest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from the ending zero.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`round()`** function returns the integer that is closest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`round()`** function returns the integer that is closest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from the ending zero.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
round(num);
```

> The `num` parameter must be a `double`,`float`, or `long double`. The return value will be an integer.
> In `halfway case` the number get round-off to the next closest integer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `num` parameter must be a `double`,`float`, or `long double`. The return value will be an integer. If `num` is a halfway case where the decimal place is `.5` or higher, then the closest integer above `num` is returned.
```

> ## Example 1
> 
> ```cpp
> double num = 4.5;
> double result;
> 
> result = std::round(num);
> 
> std::cout << "The result is " << result << "!\n";
> // Output: The result is 5!
> 
> ```
> 
> 

Reviewer: Let's keep the entry to just one "Example" and one "Codebyte Example". My suggestion here would be to combine the code from both of these snippets.

```suggestion
```

> ## Example 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```

```cpp

> double num = 9.23;
> double result;
> 
> result = std::round(num);
> 
> std::cout << "The result is " << result << "!\n";
> // Output: The result is 9!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main() {
  double num1 = 9.23;
  double result1;
  result1 = std::round(num1);

  std::cout << "The result of round(9.23) is " << result1 << "!\n";

  double num2 = 4.5;
  double result2;
  result2 = std::round(num2);

  std::cout << "The result of round(4.5) is " << result2 << "!\n";
}
```

Reviewer: I think we should include the `#includes` statements along with the code being nested in a `main()` method so that if a reader copy/pastes this example they can run it. 😄

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This produces the following output:

```

Then add a new \```shell code snippet with the following:

```shell
The result of round(9.23) is 9!
The result of round(4.5) is 5!
```

## Codebyte Example

The following example is runnable and rounds the halfway case away from zero:

```codebyte/cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main() {
  double num = 10.89;
  double result;

  result = std::round(num);

>   std::cout << "The result is " << result << "!\n";
>   // Output: The result is 11!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  std::cout << "The result is " << result << "!\n";
```

Reviewer: No need for output comments in Codebyte snippets.

---
Title: 'round()'
Description: 'Returns the integer that is nearest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from the ending zero.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Arithmetic'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c-plus-plus'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`round()`** function returns the integer that is closest to the argument, with halfway cases rounded away from the ending zero.

Reviewer 2: @tanishq-singh-2301 Let's say something along this lines of he number being rounded up. More straightforward this way.

## Syntax

```pseudo
round(num);
```

> The `num` parameter must be a `double`,`float`, or `long double`. The return value will be an integer. If `num` is a halfway case where the decimal place is `.5` or higher, then the closest integer above `num` is returned.

Reviewer 3: ~If `num` is a halfway case where the decimal place is `.5` or higher, then the closest integer above `num` is returned.~

Consider this instead:

"If the decimal in `num` is 0.5 or higher, the closest integer greater than `num` is returned."

## Example

The following example showcases the `round()` function being applied to two `double` values, one of which is a halfway case:

```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

int main() {
  double num1 = 9.23;
  double result1;
  result1 = std::round(num1);

>   std::cout << "The result of round(9.23) is " << result1 << "!\n";

Reviewer 3: Remove the exclamation mark ('!').

  double num2 = 4.5;
  double result2;
  result2 = std::round(num2);

>   std::cout << "The result of round(4.5) is " << result2 << "!\n";

Reviewer 3: Remove the exclamation mark ('!').
